---
title: "January 2021 - Notes ❄"
date: 2021-01-26
categories:
- Monthly Review
tags:
- review
autoThumbnailImage: false
thumbnailImagePosition: "left"
thumbnailImage: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/maPry1C9Xm5iSRHr9J-d7uYK6n49zQunpzlb-PEbmxQbZQKBfw16HFBRvk3C0G9RRlzKp-X_53KJt3W_PsgUrKRzabRNHjO9A2bJSYq4kPeQb7BmukDosUtFteNzhRabG3B5KyCslzv02a1wl1ARrZOl-a-DBwtMGjiOQQ786MQBsQqq6JTOj6YA14e2I8URPBFZWkiwQaSZbgjPVeJvqi8pTNZiPKs9OR2bKD-WGgSHF7V7NY8TnPLYaFoyyEaRcWwaqZlNwgDMKDYvX3R7rz5i77iapEJsyRyj60b04oyjADs_-wPEBAr2R8yaFzaHPaodcnnhD0p1su89O4uq9fsZfE9DFU4UEjrzHyJ7Fz7HgtkKJ4jgMwjt7i46YAbHYHui7RhJSHssk8FfpnyxpBUir-ly-jNLMjB4EPU2RQhhtOwWWsmO4aXxKNf4T5PBLVlhq0s8sppUenC6NLHwLdmimqRnpL0Bp89wg_zab22O_CiGMIb-ajOe9f40-vxuqWKFsupW_PtQHx5cG48pmhAFPMzlf5m1PkYGzJThGP4WD_p_BpncGmzcFQWVkYVi40tm1Lq_n9dizPfBMqm9taonjvUM_NQDOtNxLBm8jewTa6uEBQTv9jc_rujFiLA0Sh_I-xBEhTg85mOeK2egKJTNGsNwl7Gw8zij8mQT1TnxOtpu6sOFpqFgi-kFSg=w1042-h703-no?authuser=0"
#coverImage: //d1u9biwaxjngwg.cloudfront.net/welcome-to-tranquilpeak/city.jpg
metaAlignment: center
---
On the last Tuesday of each month, I like doing a review of my month and take a step back to see if I am on my critical path to success. In this blog post, I will cover what are the books and blogs I have read this month, the podcasts I have listened to and the movies that I have watched, and most importantly the lessons I have learned. So, brace yourselves recommendations are coming!!!

{{< twitter 1352849072001081347 >}}

## Books
Spoiler alert: I did not read as much as I expected primarily because I was traveling for the first 10 days of the month and then I moved to a new city, so I had failed to take into account the time I will be spending on getting my home in order. And I lost my kindle on a flight which made me sad for few days but I am privileged enough to buy a new kindle, so now I am going to get back to reading!

[The Compound Effect by Darren Hardy](https://amzn.to/3t17x4b) - This is the number one book I will recommend to anyone who's starting their journey in self-improvement. This book highlights basic principles of compounding which will have astounding results over time. Some of my favorite quotes from the book are:

- You reap what you sow; you can't get out of life what you're not willing to put into it.
- Have you ever bitten by an elephant? How about a mosquito? It's the little things in life that will bite you.
- You've to be willing to give 100 percent with zero expectations of receiving anything in return.

[Thinking in Bets by Annie Duke](https://amzn.to/3pnsuEu) - I had completed 30% of this book and I lost my kindle, I still have not finished this book but this is what I learned. Life is Poker, not chess. The decisions we make in our lives involve luck, uncertainty, risks, and occasional deception - prominent elements in poker. In most of our decisions, we’re not betting against another person —we’re betting against all the future versions of ourselves that we are not choosing. And we want to think well of ourselves and feel that the narrative of our life story is positive. Being wrong doesn’t fit that narrative. This book will definitely help you to challenge your beliefs and develop empathy!

"The better we get at getting better, the faster we will get better." - Douglas Engelbart

## Blogs

My favorite morning routine is to read newsletters from people I admire or go on their personal blogs and read random articles.  

These two articles from [Linda Zhang](https://twitter.com/thelindazhang?s=20) who was a Product Manager at Faire and now solopreneur writing about products. I like taking notes about everything I read, so if you want to read my notes on Linda's blogs visit my notion page [here](https://www.notion.so/Linda-Zhang-152ec3d943884102b8749a7d8a45b15a)

- [I quit my tech job, here's what I learned](https://productlessons.substack.com/p/quit-my-job)  -
- [The paradox of “better”](https://productlessons.substack.com/p/the-paradox-of-better)

The other two articles are from [Kelly's](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pengyuwei/) blog, she's a Data Scientist at Asana. I really enjoy her writing because I can relate to her. Being an immigrant and working in the US you've to break a lot of stereotypes. She writes mainly about her experience and tips/resources she used to break into data science. You can read my notes on her blog [here](https://www.notion.so/Kelly-Peng-1e80c23af312433d87ca186f0a98d04e).

- [How did 2020 change me](https://kellyyuweipeng.com/2020%e5%b9%b4%e5%a6%82%e4%bd%95%e6%94%b9%e5%8f%98%e4%ba%86%e6%88%91/)
- [30 years old, the show just started](https://kellyyuweipeng.com/30%e5%b2%81%ef%bc%8c%e5%a5%bd%e6%88%8f%e5%88%9a%e5%88%9a%e5%bc%80%e5%a7%8b/)

## Learning

I am learning a lot at work regarding improving the process, business, strategy and analytics. I have been collaborating with a lot of teams which has helped my to develop empathy for my colleagues, improve my communication and presentation skills. I am excited to use the new scraping tool which is built by the engineering tool. However, I did not learn a lot apart from my job, I did code for a couple of days. I need to block time and form a routine to learn about the things I am passionate about.

## Fun

 I watched Gemini Man and Tandav in January, they were both decent enough. I tried around 7 restaurants in Chicago and I learned how to play football which was really fun. I am so excited to watch the Super Bowl this year, it's going to be all-time great QB Tom Brady Vs Patrick Mahomes ( could become next Brady) Did you notice I have already started speaking the football lingo? I have also started working out, so I am well aligned with my goals.
 
 I had plan to publish one blog every week but I published 3/4 articles. Also, I am sending out newsletters on Tuesday but not at a fixed time. So, I need to write consistently and send out my newsletter at a fixed time every Tuesday. This month I have also realized that discipline and routine make me happy. Sometimes I have time to do the scheduled thing but I don't have the energy to do it. So, going forward I am going to take my energy levels into consideration while planning for the day. 
 
 Are you tracking your goals? Are you on your critical path to achieve them?
 
 If you are interested in learning what I am up to in 2021, please subscribe to my newsletter [here](https://harshdarji.substack.com/subscribe ) or follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/harshdarji_4)
